Essay.

About Industry 4.0
Globalization, modernization, and digitalization are relatively new concepts that took an important role in modern society and will become even more important in the years to come, mainly because we cannot ‘escape’ from them as it would imply stay stuck in the ‘past’, and also because we do not really have enough reasons to avoid them, as for the bigger part they are good for society development. 
Just as in the industrial revolution epoch, we are currently living an epoch of big changes in the work industry: jobs are tending to require more and more technological specialization or knowledge, while certain jobs that are either too repetitive or rely on physical strength are steadily being replaced by machines (cashiers and warehouse workers, for example). These changes, in a bigger scale, obviously lead to more significant changes to the way economy works. 
One of the biggest ‘challenges’ of this economy, is that its development has been notably accelerated in comparison with other economy changes of the same magnitude, the clearest example being the industrial revolution: taking a look to our history classes we can identify 3 ‘stages’ of industrial revolution which happened in a range of centuries, while revolving around the paradigm of a manufacturing economy, where people got paid based on how much they could physically produce.
Nowadays, in the industry 4.0 era (or 4th industrial revolution), we are experiencing 2 things we did not in the previous stages: first, a very accelerated development, where we are having the equivalent to years of new technologies adoption in a lapse as short as months; and most importantly, a change in the paradigm of our economy, a new ‘digital’ economy, not anymore based on how much you can physically produce.
Historical context
To understand why these changes are so important and risky for our society, let us talk a bit more about the paradigms of economy: in a manufacturing economy, specialization was not necessary. Everyone who had the physical capability and was taught, could produce, and have a job. This was something normal in the 18’s and 19’s, as the technology in those centuries was fairly limited, higher education could be considered a luxury, and globalization was just starting to take place. 
In the late 20’s, the development of computers, and more importantly the Internet, changed the game. These inventions would not only begin an era of accelerated globalization -the one we are currently ongoing-, but it would also open the door for more and numerous technologies, processes, and inventions in general to exist, but for them to be discovered, specialized people would be needed.
We, as inhabitants of the 21st century, might know for sure that higher education in our era is important to get a well-paid job and not having to worry about make ends meet. This idea, however, did not exist up to 50 years ago, because as explained before, up to late 20’s education was not important to get a job have a decent life. As per data of Statista, in the last 50 years, global literacy rate grew from 67% to 86%; this increase is significantly high if we compare the time window in which it happened to all the time since the first industrial revolution started.

With all the technology and education we currently have, and the fast development of them around the world, the economy paradigm we have had for centuries is starting to evolve into a different one, more fit for today’s world: we are changing from a manufacturing economy to a digital economy. We no longer reward physical but mental capability. However, keep in mind that is not any type of mental capability we are talking about, but the one applied to new technology and its applications. 
IT in economy
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the technological expansion, and therefore, the development of digital economy even more around the world, by making a lot of aspects of our lives switch to fully online modalities: from school to leisure activities, chances are most of the activities you had to leave your house to do, are now available online, maybe in the shape of a website or a mobile application. 
When it comes to economic crisis, most of the aspects that cause them will still exist regardless of this paradigm switch, however, there are some aspects that will be greatly diminished. Once again, let us take the current COVID-19 pandemic as an example: if this same pandemic had happened 100 years ago instead of today, the economic damage (and of course the number of deaths) would be incredibly larger than what we are experiencing today. Most people would have been forced to decide to test their luck and see if they can survive COVID, or to die from starvation by losing their jobs. 
Going on in this topic, some aspects from the manufacturing economy will also exist in a digital economy, such as the stock market, and therefore, the speculation of investors. One of the best examples on this are the crypto currencies, specifically the bitcoin, which price has been oscillating in a range of 30,000 to 60,000usd based on speculation alone. Say, if this currency was suddenly accepted and used as an official currency in a given country (El Salvador, for example), this same phenomenon could end up affecting the lives of thousands of people and might even lead to never-seen-before types of economic crisis.
 What is the future looking like?
With the 4th industrial revolution starting just a couple years ago, the future economic development stages are still unknown, however, there are some assumptions we can make about the years to come: first, a lot of current jobs will be inexistent in a very close future, as automated machines will replace human workers. 
Second, new areas of expertise will arise, and people specialized on them will be needed, take as an example the ‘data science’ field which did not really exist until recently, and now is in high demand worldwide.
Last, that the development of digital economy does not mean we will have to live through another economic crisis. If well, it will make a lot of current jobs disappear, it will also create a lot of new areas of opportunity. If anything, it will require people with higher degrees of education.

References:
-	OECD (2020), OECD Digital Economy Outlook 2020, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/bb167041-en.
-	Deloitte (2020), Deloitte Global, https://www2.deloitte.com/mt/en/pages/technology/articles/mt-what-is-digital-economy.html
